getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress proposal (#10928)
solana-labs/solana: docs/src/apps/jsonrpc-api.md

{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":[5,6,7,8,9,10],"id":1}
```

> ### getConfirmedSignaturesForAddressDepricated

Author: Or maybe just remove it entirely?

Reviewer: If we're not going to play this safe, I prefer removal over renaming, so we don't have to remember to clean it up later.

```bash
// Request
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0","id":1,"method":"getConfirmedSignaturesForAddressDepricated","params":["6H94zdiaYfRfPfKjYLjyr2VFBg6JHXygy84r3qhc3NsC", 0, 100]}' localhost:8899

// Result
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":{["35YGay1Lwjwgxe9zaH6APSHbt9gYQUCtBWTNL3aVwVGn9xTFw2fgds7qK5AL29mP63A9j3rh8KpN1TgSR62XCaby","4bJdGN8Tt2kLWZ3Fa1dpwPSEkXWWTSszPSf1rRVsCwNjxbbUdwTeiWtmi8soA26YmwnKD4aAxNp8ci1Gjpdv4gsr","4LQ14a7BYY27578Uj8LPCaVhSdJGLn9DJqnUJHpy95FMqdKf9acAhUhecPQNjNUy6VoNFUbvwYkPociFSf87cWbG"]},"id":1}
```

> ### getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress

Author: @CriesofCarrots  - check out the latest `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress`.  I think this'll be much nicer on clients, you paginate based on signature instead of slots at all (like who cares about slots) -- this'll be trivial to implement with the long-term transaction history proposal at https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/pull/10900.  Implementing the shorter history with the current rocksdb CFs will be inefficient but we can rework the CFs later if this becomes painful

Author: Also `limit` now becomes the actual limit :). (the default/max 1,000 limit directly maps to the Object list restrictions for cloud buckets)

Reviewer: Yes, this does seem nicer.
Fyi, this approach will make the blockstore implementation slightly more complex, as we will first need to query the TransactionStatus cf for that signature to find out the slot to kick of the AddressSignatures iterator. But that's at most 2 reads, so I think nbd.

Returns confirmed signatures for transactions involving an
address backwards in time from the provided slot

#### Parameters:
* `<string>` - account address as base-58 encoded string
* `<object>` - (optional) Configuration object containing the following field:
  * `startAfter: <string>` - start searching from this transaction signature,
                             which must be a confirmed signature for the account
                             address.  If not provided the search starts from

>                              the highest max confirmed block.

Reviewer: I'm a little confused by the different `start`s here. So, if a signature is provided, we search from that signature forward for 1000 transactions, but if no signature is provided, we search from the highest max confirmed block backwards for 1000 transactions?

Author: It always search backwards, I'll clarify

Reviewer: Ah, cool. Should the response be ordered from highest to lowest slot, then?

Author: yep, fixed the doc

Reviewer: Awesome, lgtm. Do you want me to do the implementation?

Author: Way to take my 🍬 away.   Sure, that'd be great actually.  Then I can jump into the storage bucket stuff with the assumption that it can just be plugged in easily.

For a mainnet-beta migration, I was thinking:
1. First update the mainnet-beta/devnet/testnet RPC nodes to a version that includes `deprecatedGetConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` and `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress`, backed by the same implementation.   Rename `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` to `deprecatedGetConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` in the documentation too. 
2. Now update web3.js to use `deprecatedGetConfirmedSignaturesForAddress`, and employ that new version in the `explorer`
3. Replace `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` with the new interface/impl and update mainnet-beta/devnet/testnet RPC nodes`.  Add new `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` to the docs, and remove`deprecatedGetConfirmedSignaturesForAddress`.
4. Adapt the cli to the new `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` in `process_transaction_history()` and update web3.js to use `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress`, and employ that new version in the `explorer`.
5. Delete the `deprecatedGetConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` implementation on the `master` branch only.  It can ship with 1.3, so there's a window for any external users (if any) to upgrade before it disappears

```bash
// Request
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0","id":1,"method":"getConfirmedSignaturesForAddressDepricated","params":["6H94zdiaYfRfPfKjYLjyr2VFBg6JHXygy84r3qhc3NsC", 0, 100]}' localhost:8899

// Result
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":{["35YGay1Lwjwgxe9zaH6APSHbt9gYQUCtBWTNL3aVwVGn9xTFw2fgds7qK5AL29mP63A9j3rh8KpN1TgSR62XCaby","4bJdGN8Tt2kLWZ3Fa1dpwPSEkXWWTSszPSf1rRVsCwNjxbbUdwTeiWtmi8soA26YmwnKD4aAxNp8ci1Gjpdv4gsr","4LQ14a7BYY27578Uj8LPCaVhSdJGLn9DJqnUJHpy95FMqdKf9acAhUhecPQNjNUy6VoNFUbvwYkPociFSf87cWbG"]},"id":1}
```

> ### getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress

Author: Alternatively we could call the new `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress` something else?  I don't really want to have a `getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress1` though

Author: > Looks okay. I find the `limit` that's not actually a limit to be a little weird, but I think I understand the motivation (not making clients submit a zillion requests to get one slot of a very active account).

Yeah not having to deal with intra-block pagination is a big motivation.  Also we did all the work by fetching the block anyway.    Think there's a better word to use than `limit`?

Returns confirmed signatures for transactions involving an
address backwards in time from the provided slot

#### Parameters:
* `<string>` - account address as base-58 encoded string
* `<object>` - (optional) Configuration object containing the following field:

>   * `slot: <u64>` - slot to start the search from.  If not provided then search from the highest max confirmed block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `slot: <u64>` - most recent slot to search.  If not provided then search from the highest max confirmed block
```
Maybe? The word start seems a little ambiguous. Looking to clarify that we're going back in time from this point.

>   * `limit: <number>` - approximate maximum transaction signatures to return (between 1 and 100, default: 100).

Reviewer: This is a pretty low cap. Maybe this is what you envision clients wanting, but from the blockstore/rpc perspective, I think there's no reason we couldn't support higher.

Author: Oops, I meant to also limit by max slots -- the lesser of `limit` transactions or 10,000 slots.     I'm thinking of the main consumers of this API (wallets, explorers) that only need to fetch enough history to allow the user to scroll for a screen or two while fetching the next chunk in the background.

```bash
// Request
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0","id":1,"method":"deprecatedGetConfirmedSignaturesForAddress","params":["6H94zdiaYfRfPfKjYLjyr2VFBg6JHXygy84r3qhc3NsC", 0, 100]}' localhost:8899

// Result
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":{["35YGay1Lwjwgxe9zaH6APSHbt9gYQUCtBWTNL3aVwVGn9xTFw2fgds7qK5AL29mP63A9j3rh8KpN1TgSR62XCaby","4bJdGN8Tt2kLWZ3Fa1dpwPSEkXWWTSszPSf1rRVsCwNjxbbUdwTeiWtmi8soA26YmwnKD4aAxNp8ci1Gjpdv4gsr","4LQ14a7BYY27578Uj8LPCaVhSdJGLn9DJqnUJHpy95FMqdKf9acAhUhecPQNjNUy6VoNFUbvwYkPociFSf87cWbG"]},"id":1}
```

### getConfirmedSignaturesForAddress

Returns confirmed signatures for transactions involving an
address backwards in time from the provided slot

#### Parameters:
* `<string>` - account address as base-58 encoded string
* `<object>` - (optional) Configuration object containing the following field:
  * `startAfter: <string>` - start searching backwards from this transaction signature,
                             which must be a confirmed signature for the account

>                              address.  If not provided the search starts from

Author: > which must be a confirmed signature for the account address

I think we can relax this requirement to be "any confirmed signature".  This'll be quite powerful, "I want the transactions that affected address X prior to this other rando signature"

Author: Although this does require us to impose an order for transactions that are within a ledger entry, where those transactions are really just a set.   The order we impose would just be whatever order they happen to be in within the entry.   This is a little fib, probably fine right?

Reviewer 2: Looks to me that transaction ordering matters for the entry merkle trees which get included in POH so I think it's actually legit!

                             the highest max confirmed block.
  * `limit: <number>` - maximum transaction signatures to return (between 1 and 1,000, default: 1,000).

#### Results:
The result field will be an array of:

> * `<string>` - transaction signature as base-58 encoded string, ordered from newest to oldest.

Reviewer 2: While we're at it, it would be nice to include the status and slot number for each signature.

Author: I agree it would be nice for some users.   Looking up the status and slot number requires significantly more work for the RPC server and I'd like to not do that work by default.   

Some options:
1. Do nothing.  Make the client shuttle the signatures back to the RPC node via `getSignatureStatus` (which hopefully will be a smaller set of signatures than what's returned here)
2. Add an optional input configuration option.  If we do this then I'd want to reduce the number of signatures returned here from 1,000 to 256 to match the `getSignatureStatus`  bounds

Reviewer 2: Doing nothing sounds fine to me, didn't realize it would be significantly more work to pull that info.

Author: It might still be possible actually, with a but of restructuring of the storage backend.   `Option<TransactionError>` and a`Slot` isn't that big, relative to the signature itself.   What do you think the user would do with that info though?  If they'd just turn around and call `getSignatureStatus` anyway then there's probably no benefit.

Reviewer 2: > If they'd just turn around and call getSignatureStatus anyway then there's probably no benefit

The reason I brought it up was to elide the call to `getSignatureStatus` altogether. Beyond status and slot, there's just confirmations which isn't relevant for confirmed signatures.

> What do you think the user would do with that info though?

I'm not sure what all the use cases are but for the explorer I felt that signatures by themselves were pretty meaningless. Seeing status and slot adds a lot of context (status for checking why a tx failed and slot for how recently active an account was)

![Screen Shot 2020-07-08 at 11 07 43 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1076145/86935820-d9555400-c16f-11ea-8f55-93997f704b30.png)

Author: I think we can do this.  I'm re-structuring the S3 data (need to update #10900 still) to hold this additional information.

Author: I updated the RPC response to include the slot/status
